So we've talked about defining DevOps.
Cool, I appreciate you guys
still being with me here.
Let's talk about standards versus rules.
How many here like rules?
Anybody in programming,
anybody like rules?
Yeah, you like rules, okay.
So more often than not I have
discovered that when you tell
a developer that they have a rule
they immediately hate you.
And so again not even talking about
programming now how do we get around that,
right?
How do I get around to the developer
yelling, say, I was gonna be like this?
And then you simply go,
because it's a rule.
Changing how you even conversate about
things, again, related to culture can
be massively important when trying to
make impactful changes at companies.
And so what I wanna kind of talk about
now is okay, we've defined DevOps,
and we have a good idea of at least,
some of the things we wanna do,
how do we do it in a way where we're
not just stepping over everybody?
And I think that first step is going to be
implementing standards instead of rules,
right.
As I said,
developers don't like rules, however,
they will adhere to standards for
the greater good of the product.
Most of us I would hope will agree that
being in an engineering conversation and
somebody brings up, well that's great,
but like this is for
the greater good of the product, or
this is something we've all agreed upon.
Normally that can be a way of saying,
okay, let's keep our guiding star,
let's keep our focus, and
it will make it a little easier when you
don't want developers to do things
that they probably shouldn't do.
Rules are normally,
something that are pretty hot topics.
And another thing I think about rules
that are not good is they don't seem like
they're bendable, they don't seem like
you can change them, and that's not true.
If somebody was to come into DevOps and
say, hey, we've got this standard,
but it's terrible, it's wasting so
much of our time, I couldn't argue that.
I'd have to sit down and be, okay, cool,
where are we failing, what can we do?
Whereas somebody who hears that,
well we do this as a rule
may not even bring it up.
They may just say, well,
this is how we've done things and
we're gonna keep saying it that way.
And so, again, I think it's really
important to note here that
developers don't like rules, but
they will adhere to standards.
So what are DevOps standards?
What are they actually?
They're guidelines really or
best practices that organizations
can follow to implement
standards successfully.
These standards typically cover areas
such as communication, collaboration and
automation, and can help organizations
improve their software development process
and deliver better products
to their customers.
To give an example of this,
at where I work,
we have two different types of releases.
We have a two week release schedule where
every two weeks the whole company comes
together which some of us
probably can relate to this.
The whole company comes together and
we get into Slack Channel and we work for
three hours, four hours to getting
our deployment out essentially.
That is the standard that we set.
We said okay, well, every two weeks
we're gonna sit down and we're gonna
get this deployment out the door,
keyway is not gonna do anything else,
they're just gonna focus on this,
and that is how we do deployments.
About six months ago or so,
we realized that that wasn't good.
Does anyone have any idea why bringing 300
people together at one time might not be
a good idea?
[LAUGH].
Yeah, it was something we started
realizing is nights would go until 6 PM.
If any of you guys have ever dealt with
late night deployments, same been there.
That's a problem, right?
That's a problem that DevOps can solve.
And so what did we do?
We decided to implement
something called FBR or
what we call our feature-based releases.
And so the whole concept of
this is essentially that,
instead of having everyone come
together every two weeks and
basically hate each other, it was better
for us to build a system that enabled
the developers to deploy on their own,
straight to production if they want it to.
Now if they you know break it,
that's their fault but
that's a standard that we've set,
where we said, okay,
well, as DevOps we will create a flow for
you that you can rely on, depend on,
if you need to rollback you have
the mechanisms there to do it.
But at the end of the day, you can now use
this standard of deployment if you want,
or you can use this standard
of deployment if you want.
And we've made it so
that technically people can go from,
the two week deployment and then slowly
move over to the FBR back and forth.
Again we had to make it so
that people were excited about it.
There's no reason to build anything if
nobody at your company is going to use it,
especially with our job.
So it was very important to
not just build a new flow so
that people can easier deploy their
software, but it was also really important
to build a flow that people
were excited about, right?
Getting hype around it and things like
that, look how easy it is to just,
in our case it's all powered by Jira,
actually.
And so
you can literally just move a Jira and
then it will simply deploy your your
thing for you, again standards.
So let's talk a little bit
about each one of the steps.
I'm gonna give you guys examples on
basically where I think you guys can start
looking for
standards within your company, and
hopefully these will be helpful
in ways that you can start
potentially applying these at your
company, maybe if you don't have them.
The first one is definitely
gonna be automation standards.
Automating the software
deployment development and
deployment process using
tools such as CI/CD.
The main point here is that,
don't do anything twice,
[LAUGH] there's no need,
save yourself time.
If there's a circumstance where you're
spending more than five minutes on
anything, try and automate it,
try and build CLI tools.
Try and make it reproducible a lot easier.
But the main point of having
automation standards is
really about making sure that
the things you guys are doing
a lot are no longer time
consuming within the company.
Planning standards,
I know this sounds crazy but
having good standards
around how you plan things.
I don't expect DevOps engineers or people
who work in DevOps to be Scrum Masters,
that's what PMs do, but our main focus
is still to even work with them,
to sit down and say, okay,
are we on Scrum are we on Kanban?
How does that work within
our infrastructure,
do we have any concerns about that?
We have a new massive change coming
down the pipeline, plan for it.
You know what I mean,
let's prepare for this and so
having good planning
standards is very important.
Quality Standards, my gosh,
everybody please listen to this one.
Please listen to this one.
You have to have quality standards,
you have to, bottom line.
If you don't, it's something you should
really be talking about it your company.
What does quality standards mean?
Version Control, configuration management,
making sure that you have good testing,
good ways of auditing your
software after it's gone out.
This is hands down one of the biggest
things that are lacked in
software development in general,
at least my personal opinion.
We do not set our quality standards
as high as we probably should,
which is what introduces
a lot of problems later on.
And so again doing things like versioning,
version control,
just curious for
any of you guys here, and in chat,
how many of you guys actually use
Simva versioning with your releases?
Actually, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, I knew it.
Yeah, it's so uncommon, it really is.
Unless you're working on a open source
project or something like that, right?
Which is what you normally think of.
Most companies are just using latest,
things like that.
>> Are there any books or
blogs you recommend that inspired
your philosophy on DevOps.
>> No, I wish there were,
there's definitely again some
white papers out there but
a lot of it right now unfortunately is
just marketing, a lot of it really is.
So it is really gonna be
important I think, for
you to get your confidence,
which is why I'm showing what I'm showing.
If you're not confident in what you're
doing, then you're definitely not
doing DevOps, because DevOps is
definitely about having that confidence.
And again, it may be unique to
your experience at your job,
it may be unique to somewhere else, but
I think that confidence is more
important than anything else.
And yeah, I hope to see more
good information out there.
The only other thing I can
think of that is helpful is,
does anyone here know Kelsey Hightower?
He's a very big, very well known engineer,
and he works at Google, but
he's basically worked in DevOps for
most of his career, from what I can tell.
He's a good source of information.
I would say looking for people who are
willing to have a honest opinion about it,
he's probably gonna be your best bet
with finding helpful resources and
stuff like that right now.
And again,
[LAUGH] hopefully later it'll get better.
And again just to getting
back into the standards here,
communication standards,
we talked a bit about quality, right?
Well you can't really have quality
without good communication.
And this is something that I think
is also really lacked as well,
which is nobody really feels
encouraged to talk about anything.
DevOps being such a lock
door with a lock key,
what a lot of engineers
might not realize is,
I would love to hear your thoughts.
I would, because I think what
a good DevOps mindset is,
is to basically think that
you know nothing, and
you're basically just constantly learning.
And I think that's good in engineering
in general, but especially with DevOps,
when you have so many different types
of things that are coming across,
what you have to deal with.
You may be dealing with
a front end one day,
you might be dealing with a back end the
other day, and the worst thing you can do,
is block that communication with either
preconceived notions about things or,
well, no, I thought it worked this way,
no, it worked.
No, [LAUGH] let's just
figure out the problem.
And so
communication is massively important.
And that might even mean
something as simple as saying,
once a week we'll have our team
sit down and work together.
It might mean that you have other ways of
handling that communication, but if you
are at a company right now where you feel
like communication is a problem to you,
then that's probably something
that really needs to be fixed.
Because it's gonna be hard to make
any type of impactful or big changes,
especially when that
communication is lacking.
And what's cool is is that you can even
utilize standards to improve them.
So things like metrics, right?
How many here actually use metrics
reliably at their companies for things?
Okay, if, okay, gotcha,
gotcha, no worries.
Yeah, that's another thing that is
unfortunately very falling right now
in the industry is metrics and data.
There's a lot of great companies
out there that will tell you,
going back to your question of, how do
I compare the solution to the problem?
Great one, there's tons of companies
out there right now that'll say,
we'll get your data into charts and
it'll look great and you'll get alerts and
then it's, well, what's my data?
[LAUGH] Okay, that's cool that
you've got this cool product,
but you can't think
about it from the tool.
You have to think about what
kind of data do you care about.
As an example, where I work,
we use CICD for our systems, obviously,
and one of the big things we were
worried about was time spent just
running things because we have some
monoliths that take forever to do things.
And so one of the things that we decided
to do was just put in our own trackers for
all of our jobs in CI and then start
marking those, so that we can simply say,
okay, tests are running five minutes,
builds a running 10 minutes.
And they're our metrics,
not somebody else's.
Why would we double those metrics?
Because then we can do other
things with those metrics.
We can alert on those metrics,
we could solve our problems with it,
rather than saying, hey, I'm just
gonna lean on what's already there.